---
layout:	post
title:	"Web Development Resources"
date: 	2022-02-24
categories: web-development
---

Building websites can be learned online for free. Though in person mentoring can be useful, one of the most important skills in IT is the ability to answer your own questions. This is a resource for others to reference if they're curious about web development. It is loosely based off of university code camps syllabi.

I used many of these same resources when I taught myself and friends how to do simple web development. Be sure to use search engines, forums, mentors, and online communities when you run into trouble.

**PC Minimum Requirements**

Linux: 2GB RAM \
Windows: 4GB RAM, 10GB+ storage, Windows 8+ <br> 
MacOS: 4GB RAM, 10GB+ storage 

### Recommended Starter Software
If you have never approached programming before, these are extremely beginner friendly tools to create a simple webpage. Always use what works best for productivity purposes. The two essential tools to get started are an editor and a web browser. I recommend downloading all of the following:
- [Atom](https://atom.io/)
- [Firefox](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/new/)
- [Chrome](https://www.google.com/chrome/index.html)

### Overview: Subjects, Languages, and Topics

**Concepts** \
Searches and Sorts \
Performance \
Time Complexity \
Big O Notation \
Data Structures \
Responsive Design \
Progressive Web Applications (PWAs) \
Local Storage, Session Storage, IndexedDB \
MongoDB \
User Authentication \
Template Engines \
MERN Stack & Alternative Stacks \
Client-Server Model \
API \
Rest \
HTTP Request Methods \
Heroku \
Git \
Github & Github Pages \
Shell Scripting \
Unit Testing \
Lintin \
Continuous Integration \
Amazon Web Services and Cloud Computing Services \
 \
**Languages & APIs** \
HTML/CSS \
React.js \
Javascript/jQuery \
C# \
Python \
Java \
MySQL \
JSON \
AJAX (Fetch API) \
GraphQL \
Bootstrap 

#### Free Digital Media Tools
It is useful, though not necessary, to know how to create and edit digital media. Popular programs often have free alternatives that are great to learn and practice with. These include: Inkscape, Kdenlive, Blender, and Gimp.
